Earlier in training, you learned the listen,
acknowledge, ask, redirect framework, and
the most common objections.
That covers probably 80% of what you'll
hear.
This section covers the other 20%, which is
the complex, unusual, and
sometimes uncomfortable stuff that makes
most people on the phone freeze up.
These situations are harder because they
carry more emotional weight, more legal
complexity, or more moving pieces.
But the framework is the same.
You just need more depth in how you apply
it.
When a seller says, I owe more than it's
worth, that's an underwater property.
The mortgage balance is higher than what the
house would sell for.
This is more common than you'd think, especially
in certain markets and with people who
bought at the wrong time or took out second
mortgages.
Your job here is to understand the full
financial picture.
Ask if they're current on their payments or
falling behind.
Ask roughly what they owe.
Sometimes a short sale structure can work.
Sometimes it's genuinely not a fit.
Either way, don't make them feel bad about
it.
Being underwater is stressful and a lot of
people are embarrassed to talk about it.
When they say, I have tenants, can I still
sell?
The answer is yes. We buy properties with
tenants all the time.
The questions you need answered are whether
the tenants are on a lease, whether they're
paying rent, and whether they'd be willing
to stay or need to move.
If there's a squatter situation, someone
living in the property without a lease or
permission, that's more complicated.
Acknowledge how frustrating that is.
Say something like, that sounds incredibly
frustrating and we've dealt with situations
like that before. Let me get the details and
see what we can do.
Don't promise a solution, just gather
information.
Leaseback requests come up when someone needs
the cash from selling but isn't ready to
move yet. Maybe they're waiting for a new
place to be ready, or they need a few months
to get situated. They'll ask, can I stay in
the house after selling?
And the answer is that it's something we can
discuss.
A leaseback means they'd stay as a tenant
for a defined period after closing.
You don't need to negotiate the terms
yourself.
Just say, that's something our acquisition
team handles on the specifics.
But yes, we've done arrangements like that
before.
Let me get the details of what you'd need.
Privacy concerns are more common than you
might expect.
I don't want my neighbors to know I'm
selling.
There's usually something behind that.
Financial trouble they don't want people to
see.
A divorce, family drama, whatever it is, the
answer is simple.
When you sell to us, there's no listing on
the MLS, no sign in the yard, no open houses,
no strangers walking through.
It's a private transaction.
Contract fears. What if I change my mind
after signing?
People are scared of commitment, especially
with something as big as their house.
Tell them the contracts have an inspection
period built in, that everything gets walked
through before they sign,
that nothing happens until they're comfortable,
and that they'll have time to have an
attorney or anyone they trust review
everything.
You're reducing the perceived risk of saying
yes.
So that's the situation side.
The property, the money, the paperwork.
But some of the hardest objections aren't
about the property at all.
They're about trust. Is this a scam?
Are you just going to flip it for a profit?
My attorney said, don't sign anything.
My family doesn't agree.
That's the next lesson.
I'll see you there.